Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
In this lecture, we're going to get a little more advanced
and talk about finding things that are topical
and related to your product.
For those of you paying close attention, I'm sure you're
thinking, "Wait, didn't we talk about news already?"
You are right, we did.
And why, thank you for paying attention, fictitious viewer.
You're probably the same fictitious viewer that asked
me to give them a website quote based off of the
description "new social media app" - that was it.
If you're still out there, the answer is a million dollars.
Yes, we did talk about following news, trends,
and stories before, but this is a bit different.
This is different because, number one, something doesn't
need to have happened right now to be useful for you.
And two, we can use blogs.
Blogs are spelled B-L-A-G-S and pronounced blags.
We can use blags instead of just what new story
people are talking about at any given moment on Twitter.
And before you post in the Slack group that there's
no news or blog posts about your industry,
every industry has some sort of news or blogs
covering it somewhere on the internet.
They are out there,
you just have to do a little bit of
thinking and a little bit of digging.
By the end of this lecture, we'll have covered some easy
ways to find topical news and relevant blogs for your space.
So the idea behind this strategy is that we're going
to go out, search and destroy-like, find some
blags and news that are related to
our space and what we're doing,
figure out who interacted with the same said blags
and news, and then use that as a way to build a list
of pre-qualified users that we can then
tweet at and interact with on Twitter - like duh.
If you're just mindlessly sifting through Twitter, as
about 80 million people do a day, you aren't going
to be able to very effectively tell who is interested in
your space or in the problem you're trying to solve.
This is one way of flushing those users out.
OK, so to better conceptualize this, let's use another
example business, so you can kind of get a better
idea of how this works.
Let's say your product is,
oh, I don't know, a time management app.
Maybe your app has some sort of unique approach to time
management for super busy people or something like that.
Let's say your productivity app is a mobile app that helps
people decide what to delegate. If the task is boring,
mind-numbingly repetitive and may or
may not include some sort of bodily fluid,
well, that's what interns are for, and I'm sure
this app is there to remind you of that.
Now, since you've probably spent a ton of time researching
different time management concepts while you
were coming up with the product, I'm guessing you
already have a few blog posts or news articles saved
somewhere that are on your favorites for the subject.
Those bookmarked articles and pieces of
news are a great place to start from.
Now, if you've been living in a cave
since the internet was created,
you've just recently re-entered civilized society,
you saw sunlight, then you saw that Donald Trump was
president, and you didn't go back into your cave, oh
and you somehow immediately made a time management app for
busy people without actually doing any research on the internet,
well, first of all, welcome back,
and second of all, wow, that is honestly impressive.
So if you're not what I just described, then
keep those articles you have saved somewhere.
We'll keep them for a bit later.
A good rule of thumb for this technique is to compile
about five articles, because some articles are going
to work better than others.
If you have five in mind already,
congratulations, you are not a caveman.
Now, if you don't have five articles or any at all,
don't worry, because now we're going to go over two
different ways to find some that will help us connect with
more early customers the way we just previously described.
One is Google,
I'm sure you heard of that one, but we'll use it
in a way that you might not actually know about.
And the second one we're going to do is a tool called
Buzzsumo, and we are going to use both of them to
find you some more customers on Twitter.
OK, so for the first one, let's jump over to our trusty
friend Google, who has never led us astray, and
search for something that fits your industry
or might describe your product.
For this example, remember, we're working with a time
management app, so let's search for time management. Instead
of just searching regularly,
we're going to click on "News" here up at the top.
That way, we won't see a lot of other stuff, because
it's articles that we're actually interested in.
Now, depending on what you're searching for,
sometimes Google sticks it in the "More" section,
no one knows why.
Well, you know why, because algorithms.
All right.
So there we go.
Now we can see some recent articles on the topic.
Let's pick one and just check it out.
Honestly though, the actual content of the post isn't
all that important as long as the title makes sense,
it's related to your product, and the article is written
by what looks like a reputable source or relevant
looking blog domain,
then it should work fine for what we're going to do with it.
What's most important though is whether or not
people are sharing this article we found on Twitter.
Now, let's copy the URL of the selected article
and head over to search.twitter.com, which we
used in a previous demo, and plug it in.
You're going to probably see a lot of
companies tweeting out articles like this.
Just ignore those. You want to find real, actual people
who are so into time management that they just
had to share it with their followers.
They're the type of people that probably use standing desks,
dual monitors, and say things like "crushing it" all the time.
Once you found a couple of those, then reply to
them like we talked about in an earlier lecture.
If you don't remember how to do that
without sounding like a spammy sales guy,
well, basically you just want to find something they
wrote or shared and use that as a way to say something
legitimately related to it.
Once you get them into a conversation, you can
introduce the product or continue the conversation,
with the idea in mind that you will later introduce it.
All right, so that is it, you use Google to find an
article to find people who shared that article,
and we know, because they shared the
article, they're interested in that topic,
let's start a conversation with them.
Once you do that, it's very easy
to get them to look at your website,
presumably, if what you're selling is
worthwhile, they could possibly buy it.
All right, now onto the second tool, Buzzsumo. Now,
Buzzsumo is a paid tool and it costs like $100/month I think,
but you can get limited access without paying or
even creating an account, and I'm pretty sure if you
really want to go farther with this,
they have a free trial period.
We're just trying to get you your
first 10 customers in this section,
so there's really no need to spend roughly 52 orders
of large French fries at McDonald's on it per month.
True story.
I actually have a friend who does that McDonald's
French fries calculation to prevent them from buying
things and apparently to justify eating more French fries.
So we head over to Buzzsumo.com. As you can see,
there is a search bar right there on the home page.
This is where we'll plug in the key word
"time management" again, just like we did on Google,
and that way we can see a list of articles related
to time management.
Ok, so now we see a list of articles sorted
by the amount of total shares.
You can also see the website they're from,
and when they were published right here below the
link. We can open a couple of these up in a new tab,
check them out briefly to make sure they make
sense, like we talked about a moment ago.
Again, some might make sense and some might not at all.
And then we can just copy the URL of the article
and do the exact same thing we did with Twitter.
Remember? Search.twitter.com, find the people
that shared it, interact with those people.
What's really great about Buzzsumo is that you're
not only going to find stuff that was shared more
widely, but you're also going to find stuff that's still
being shared by people even though it wasn't
published earlier today.
So the people that are reading these and sharing
these articles were probably actually searching for
something related to it, or
you know, for example, time management, and it's
very possible they were looking for some sort of solution
to their time management problems.
They actively went out and seeked
or sooked this information out.
Another great thing about Buzzsumo is we don't have
to dig around articles to figure out which ones
have been shared.
This is automatically sorted for us.
So why exactly do we use Google
then as well in addition to this?
Well, I'll give you a pretty quick answer for that one.
It's free and it has better coverage.
All right, so those are super simple, but very effective
ways to find people who are interested in your
product and then isolate them on a platform where you
can easily communicate to them and get their attention.
Just remember, Google News and Buzzsumo. If you're
having a rough time with it, just post to the Slack group
and see if we can help you out.
See you in the next lecture, where we're going to go over one
last strategy that utilizes sweet, sweet Twitter. See you then.